[theme music]
¶ Happy birthday to you ¶
¶ Happy birthday dear Willie ¶
¶ Happy birthday dear daddy ¶
¶ Happy birthday to you ¶¶
Thank you.
Thanks, everyone. Thank you.
"To a super dad, husband
and earthling."
That was mine.
Well, thanks. Thanks, everyone.
I'm, I'm very, very touched.
- Thank you, dear.
- Oh, happy birthday, darling.
- Happy birthday, daddy.
- Oh, thank you, son.
- Many more, dad.
- Thanks. Thanks, sweetheart.
Thank you, ALF. Thank..
Whoa! Not bad.
Still waters run deep there,
William.
- Blow out the candles.
- Okay.
Uh, one, two, three, uh..
[all laughing]
'Joke candle, oh, yeah, joke.'
What is this,
the fifth year now?
And I, I fall for it
every single time.
Hey, back off there,
Willie Bob.
- Let me give it a shot.
- 'Oh.'
[Kate gasps]
'ALF!'
What?
[theme music]
[music continues]
(in unison)
Speech! Speech! Speech!
Oh, okay. Okay.
I was born the son
of a poor asteroid polisher.
Uh, I'm supposed to be
making the speech.
I think I know my life
better than you do.
But enough about me.
Thank you.
Well, I don't think I've got
too much to complain about
that's for sure.
I have my health,
I have a wonderful wife
I have two great kids..
...a-and an alien.
Okay. Great speech.
Let's open the presents.
Okay, I'll be right back.
Come on, Brian.
I hope you got me jewelry.
ALF, i-it's Willie's birthday.
He's the one
who gets the presents.
[laughing]
The guy who has the birthday
also gets the presents?
Talk about your whacky planet.
Okay, dad, close your eyes.
(Willie)
'Oh.'
Okay...open!
- Happy birthday, darling.
- Oh.
Kate, it's "The Cambridge Atlas
Of Astronomy."
- Yeah.
- Thank you, sweetheart.
- Let me see this.
- You're welcome.
(Willie)
'See, I've been
eyeing that book'
'in the bookstore for weeks.'
'You know, I was gonna wait
until it came out in paperback'
but.. What are you doing?
I'm correcting the more
glaring errors.
Look at this.
They left out the tenth planet.
Dave.
Give me that.
You know..
...I think you make things up.
You told me there was a race
of cucumber people on Mars.
Not a race, a family.
A small family.
They're mean!
Here.
Happy birthday!
[gasps]
Well, thanks. What is it?
I don't know, something I found
in the basement
behind the chemical toilet.
Oh, how thoughtful.
Well, I can't exactly
go out and shop!
Oh, no, no.
I mean it is charming.
This one's very thoughtful,
ALF, thank you.
L-look at these,
these are pictures.
These are our high school,
our college pictures.
Oh, my gosh!
I don't believe this!
- There's old letters in there.
- Oh.
Mom, who is this gorgeous guy
with his arm around you?
Oh, that's Animal Honerhime.
Animal?
Your mother dated
a lot of gorgeous guys
before she met me. Not that
I wasn't gorgeous myself.
Hey, who is this guy
that looks like Harrison Ford?
Uh, that's Nolan Westwood.
Who's this guy
in the stupid-looking clothes?
That's a football uniform, ALF.
I know this guy.
He's an old-timer.
What's his name? Joe..
Namath.
You dated Joe Namath?
The panty hose guy? Wow!
Mom, you really went out
with some hunks.
But I married
the best hunk of them all.
Oh, my gosh! Here's a menu.
Oh, look, it's an old menu
from that little restaurant
that, uh,
Kate and I discovered.
- Oh.
- Let's order.
The restaurant's
been closed for 20 years.
- Then why are we ordering?
- We're not ordering.
Oh, honey, look what we wrote
on the back. It's our list.
What list?
Well, your father and I
each made a list of things
that we wanted to accomplish
in our lives.
You know,
our goals, dreams.
Can I see it?
Look what mom wrote,
"To ski the Eagles Nest
"at Squaw Valley.
"To have a poem published
"in a major literary magazine.
To run with the bulls
at Pamplona."
She did all that too.
Wow, Kate, you little
overachiever you.
Yeah. Way to go, mom.
Oh, well, you know
how I am with lists.
I love crossing things off.
- Where's your list, dad?
- Oh, it's in there.
I-I think I wrote it
under the catch of the day.
Let me see that.
I may want sea bass.
We're not ordering.
Alright, alright.
Let me read this. Wait a minute.
"Willie Tanner,
goals and ambitions.
Number one,
to build a better mousetrap."
Well, that must have been
a piece of cake.
Not exactly, I-I-I'm
still working on that one.
"Number two,
complete that skydive."
Complete that skydive?
How do you skydive
just a little bit?
Do you jump halfway?
No, you..
...you get ready to jump..
...you have second thoughts
you go back to your seat
to sit down.
Oh, you chicken out.
N-no, you decide not to jump.
- You come to your senses.
- Yes, you have second thoughts.
You decide not to be stupid.
Alright, alright.
(Willie and ALF)
You chicken out.
Now, how about
some of that wet cake?
Yeah.
[instrumental music]
- Yo, Willie.
- Yo, uh..
- What are you workin' on?
- My mousetrap.
Uh-huh.
You might have a little
trouble slipping that baby
behind a refrigerator.
Say, uh, don't you have
some sleeping to do?
No, I always wake up
around 3:00, 3:30
have a couple of potatoes
and, uh, wait for my papers.
- What a life.
- Yeah, so far no complaints.
- Want a cold spud?
- No. No, thanks.
'Cause I ate
the rest of the cake.
- I should tell you that now.
- That's okay.
And the candles.
Listen, uh..
...ALF, I, I'd really
like to finish this thing.
Why bother?
Because I like to finish
something I start.
You never finished that skydive.
Did you ever set goals
for yourself
that you weren't
able to accomplish?
- No.
- N-none?
Melmacians don't
set goals really.
We live from moment to moment.
- From snack to snack.
- Yes.
We take time to stop and..
...smell the potatoes.
Did you ever jump
out of a moving plane?
Hey, you wanna be alone,
just tell me.
No, no, I mean,
did-did, did you ever skydive?
I fell to Earth at Mach 16.
What was that like?
Imagine Mach 8, and double it.
- Weren't you scared?
- Not once I started plummeting.
Mmm.
Hey, Willie,
don't worry about it.
You don't have
to prove anything.
You're a good provider.
You've got a couple
of great kids and an alien.
You don't run around.
And your life is incredibly
predictable and safe.
[thud]
There's my paper. Ciao.
[instrumental music]
- Kate
- Yeah?
You ever hear from Nolan?
Nolan who?
Nolan Westwood.
No. Why?
Oh, uh, I don't know,
I just wondered
if you've heard from him since,
you know since college.
Actually, I heard
that he went to New Guinea
and never came back.
Oh, that's...that's too bad.
Some tribe
made him their king.
- W-why do you ask?
- Oh, nothing.
I wa.. I was just, uh,
I was just curious.
Oh.
Does he have any real power
or is he just a figurehead?
Well, uh...
he's on the stamps.
- What about Joe?
- Joe who?
You know...the football guy.
- Theismann?
- No.
Joe Namath.
Did you go out
with Joe Theismann too?
No, honey. Just Namath. Why are
you bringing all this up?
Kate, you think of me as
incredibly predictable
and safe?
Yes.
That's why I'm here with you,
right now.
Now, go to sleep.
You have a busy day tomorrow.
Yeah. I gotta take the wagon
and get the radiator flushed.
After that, I'm going to,
uh, stop at the hardware
and see if the lawn sprinkler
has come in yet.
Hmm.
Having lunch
with Cousin Verne.
He talked to me
about his new edger.
After that..
...I decided
I'm gonna go skydiving.
Mmm.
- Goodnight, dear.
- Goodnight.
[instrumental music]
Ah!
Excuse me.
Where am I?
You're at your graduation.
Well, uh, well,
what am I graduating from?
Uh, this is a dream, Tanner.
Its purpose is to point out
how inadequate you are
compared to everybody else.
That sounds like fun.
Would you mind
standing off to the side?
[instrumental music]
[music stops]
Nolan Westwood.
Come on out
and accept your diploma.
[all cheering]
Congratulations, Nolan,
on being a successful unicyclist
world traveler
and New Guinean king.
Thank you.
Here are some stamps and coins.
He's on the money too?
- Tanner, quiet.
- I'm sorry.
Listen, I've got to go.
They're having a little ceremony
for me back home.
I'm being bumped up
from king to God.
- Congratulations, Nolan.
- Thanks, bub.
You've really,
you've really done quite well.
You're telling me? I've lead a
life of travel and adventure.
I'm rich, I'm famous.
I have a species of bird
named after me.
I'll have my mortgage
paid off in eight years.
Unless we refinance, of course,
Kate and I are still kicking--
Yeah, say hi to her for me,
will ya? What a cutie.
[swooshing]
Your mortgage will be paid off.
Next up, Lyle Animal Honerhime
jet-setter, yachtsman,
international financier.
Come on out here, Animal,
and get your diploma.
You rich guy you.
[all cheering]
Thank you, Dean Houseman.
Wow! Have you done well!
Yeah, I'm quite a guy.
You've won the Indianapolis 500
you're listed
in the Fortune 500
and in the National League
you batted 500.
Listen, I got to run,
we're having 500 people
over for dinner tonight.
Animal.
Uh, no, we've already got
somebody to park the cars.
No, no, no, I just, uh,
I just wanted to say
hello, I'm, I'm Willie Tanner.
Tanner.
Well, I married
Kate Halligan.
Say hello to her for me,
will ya?
You know, she is one in 500.
[swooshing]
And now..
...our next recipient
needs no introduction.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Joe Namath.
[all cheering]
Hey, Joe, go on out
for a long one, huh?
I was just kiddin'.
Here you go, Joe.
Thanks. Uh, say,
what's going on here?
Uh, uh,
Willie's having a dream.
- Willie!
- Hello, Joe.
I'm sorry
to drag you into this.
Oh, hey, that's cool. I've been
doing a lot of dreams lately.
Next week I'm doing
a Howard Cosell nightmare.
Oh, oh, gee, Joe,
you've done awfully well.
Say, would you,
would you autograph this..
...for my son Brian?
Absolutely.
- Here you go.
- Thanks, Joe.
"To Brian..
...tell your mom hello."
You know what, I always
think about what Kate said
when I proposed to her.
Yeah, and that's how
I got the bad knees
by the way, kneeling.
She said, "Broadway.."
She always called me Broadway.
She said,
"Thanks, but no thanks.
I'm looking for someone
that's...predictable and safe."
So long, Willie.
[swooshing]
Oh.
I'm going skydiving tomorrow!
[imitating Willie]
You had your chance.
And now it gives me
great pleasure to introduce
our man of the century,
someone whose accomplishments
put the rest of us to shame,
a person of whom it can truly
be said, "He changed
the way we look at the world."
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you
Gordon "ALF" Shumway.
[all cheering]
- ALF.
- Hey, ALF, great to see you.
Way to go.
- What a guy!
- He's the best.
Say, ALF,
can I have your autograph?
Sure, Joe.
Oh-ho, wait till
my friends see this.
Oh. Here you go.
- Thanks.
- ALF.
- Willie.
- ALF?
Willie.
- You're the man of the century?
- Yeah, what a surprise!
I was happy
just to be nominated.
What a kick!
- Well, congratulations!
- Thanks.
Hey, Willie, you never know
next century it could be you.
I don't think so.
Hey, come on,
don't be so negative.
All you have to do
is take this parachute
and jump, Willie. Jump! Jump!
(all)
Jump! Jump! Jump!
'Jump! Jump! Jump!'
Jump!
(in unison)
Jump! Jump!
- Jump, Willie, jump.
- Now, hit, roll. Huh?
Hit, roll.
[sighs]
How was that?
I thought the roll was supposed
to come right after the hit.
You mean, you mean there
was a pause between the two?
There was enough time
to send out for pizzas.
Now that's a thought.
- Can I try it?
- Yeah, sure.
Come on, hit, roll, huh?
Hit, roll. Hit, roll!
Yes. Yes! Yes.
There's nothing
to this skydiving stuff.
It's boring.
Let's take a break here.
Yeah, good idea.
You know, uh, ALF,
I had the strangest dream
last night...and you were in it.
- No kidding.
- Yeah.
It was really weird.
There was you
and there were these three guys
that Kate used to go out with.
What's weird about that?
Well, what were you doing in it?
Now that you brought it up
I think Kate's been
coming on to me lately.
I, I really think
you're mistaking friendliness
for, uh, something else.
Then I guess I shouldn't
have sent her flowers.
- You sent my wife flowers?
- Okay, break's over.
[blows whistle]
Let's, uh,
let's get on with this.
Come on.
Enough of this idle chit-chat.
Hit, roll. Hit! Roll!
Yeah.
- How about it?
- Not bad.
If that had been a real jump
you'd have just driven
your femur into your spleen.
Oh, Willie,
the flowers are beautiful.
Honey, what's the occasion?
Uh, it's just because
he loves you, that's all.
Oh, I love you too.
Oh, w-well,
what's going on here?
Oh, I was, uh, just
practicing my hit and roll.
- That's skydiving lingo.
- Sky..
So that is what you said
last night.
Yeah, I decided I'm,
I'm gonna take the plunge.
And don't try
talking him out of this.
ALF, do you mind?
You're really serious
about this, aren't you?
Yup.
Why are you doing this?
I'm doing this because
I feel I have to do this.
Because of something you wrote
on a menu 25 years ago?
I thought it was 20.
ALF.
Twenty five years ago
five people went up in a plane
and four people jumped.
You didn't jump
because you didn't wanna jump.
I didn't jump
because I was afraid to jump.
You're not afraid now?
I am afraid..
...but I feel..
...that this is something
I have to do.
If jumping out
of an airplane at 5000 feet
is that important to you,
you should do it.
We'll be there watching.
5000 feet? I thought
they said it was 4000.
I think it's 10,000.
[instrumental music]
[airplane whirring]
We're nearing the drop zone!
[all cheering]
- Are we pumped?
- We're pumped!
We're all pumped, alright.
We're-we're pumped as can be.
Uh, pumped as a tire,
in fact.
Good, that's what
I like to hear!
- Uh, Mr. Tanner.
- Yeah.
I noticed you didn't check off
the life insurance box.
Oh, I'm sorry.
That'll be, uh, two bucks.
Uh, I don't know, would it be
alright if I paid you later?
- Huh. Good one.
- Oh, boy.
We are now directly
over the drop zone.
Skydivers, prepare for flight.
And watch out
for that first step.
Oh, ha ha. Good one!
A-a-are you
doing this for fun?
Or-or-or do you
have a list too?
- Excuse me?
- Oh, never mind.
This is my first time.
- Nervous, huh?
- Yeah, a little.
Nothing to worry about,
just like jumping off a cliff.
- Collin!
- Yo!
[whooshing]
- Pumanski!
- Yo!
- Burner!
Hey, listen,
if anything happens to me
tell them
no life support systems.
- Gotcha.
- Yeah!
- Tanner!
- Present, yes.
- You're supposed to say yo!
- Oh, right, yo!
Uh, listen, I,
here's what I've decided.
I-I-I can't do this,
I-I-I won't do it.
I mean, I-I don't need to do it,
so I'm not going to do it.
Uh, that-that's what
I wanted to tell you.
You see, I was, I was sitting
back there and listening to
everybody say yo and all
that and I thought to myself
"Do I really want to plummet?"
And I had to admit
no...I-I don't
feel like plummeting
so I'm not gonna do it,
I'm gonna go back over there
and I'll sit down. Uh, uh,
that's, that's where I'll be.
R-right over there, okay?
W-what?
Oh, nothing.
Ah, what the hell.
[Willie screaming]
[crickets chirping]
[cat mewing]
(Lynn)
'ALF? ALF?'
In here!
[laughing]
What are you doing?
Building a better cat trap.
[thud]
How'd the jump go?
- Great, he did it.
- Yeah.
- Nice going, Willie.
Hey, let's hear it
for the Tan man.
- That's right.
- Thank you, thank you.
Thank you very much, thank you.
It was nothing,
it was like jumping off a cliff.
Are you gonna do it again?
Not in your lifetime.
Well, I'm gonna jump as soon as
Lash gets his pilot's license.
I think we'll all jump when
ALF, you would have been
really, really proud of him.
I was proud of him
before he jumped.
You said he'd end up
a red smear on the landscape.
I said he might end up
Well, honey, tell me, what's
next for the conquering hero?
Oh, I don't know.
I was thinking about that
on the way down.
I'd still like to discover
that new galaxy.
I don't know,
maybe play pro-football
for a couple of years, take the
whole gang, move to New Guinea.
[laughing]
Of course, first..
...I have to get
the radiator flushed.
[all laughing]
[thud]
[theme music]
[ALF laughing]